# Applied-Black-Litterman-on-Swiss-portfolios
Quantitative Risk Management Project

<h1>Introduction</h1>

Departing from the CAPM’s strong assumption of the homogeneity of expectations of risk
and returns, particular views of a manager can be implemented into the asset allocation, using
the Black-Litterman model (BL) in order to potentially generate alpha, outperformance over
the benchmark. After a brief review of this model and its assumptions, a basic implementation
on Swiss equities will be given. Then, the COP approach will be presented and a succinct
example on the yield curve will be provided. The underlying question of the project will be to
know if our views indeed help to achieve a better allocation under this particular model. In
conclusion, we will review the results, discuss new trends in finance and emphasize why using
the above-mentioned approach is relevant nowadays.



<h1>Black-Litterman with Normally distributed prior</h1>
The Modern Portfolio Theory MPT developed by Mr. Markowitz is a framework that
permit us to allocate an optimal weight of our wealth to each of our chosen portfolio’s assets
such that the expected return is maximized for a given level of risk, and if we consider the wide
spectrum of risk values this create many portfolios, also called the efficient portfolios.
Therefore, if we take lowest investor risk tolerance, we get the highest portfolio’s expected
return for the lowest level of risk, also called the Minimum Variance Portfolio MVP, as the
variance is a proxy to determine the riskiness of a portfolio. This MVP-portfolio is not the only
one of interest amongst the efficient portfolios, in fact in this project we will consider in addition
the Maximum Sharpe Ratio portfolio MSR, both portfolio generated by through the same MPT
logic.
However, this modern portfolio theory MPT, involving both MVP & MSR portfolio,
doesn’t really match the reality of the market and present some deficiency such as its high inputsensitivity,
in particular when negative weight are allowed, sometime suggesting absurd and
extreme weight proposal such as minus 300%. Notably, it won’t even be allowed depending on
the contractual setting to even suggest such weight. Therefore, to overcome the MPT default,
Fisher Black and Robert Litterman developed in 1990 the Black Litterman (BL) asset allocation
model. The BL approach permits to combine the MPT with some subjectivity, intuitions, views
of the investor to the equation. The investor can bring closer the MPT to the real market as its
intuition took birth within a certain political, macroeconomic spectrum that is neglected. These
views will affect the expected return of the asset concern, tilting out our entire portfolio from
the efficient MPT frontier; implying avoidance of unintuitive MPT strategy and turning into
number the subjectivity. This new portfolio below the efficient frontier once considered
irrational because we could gain more return for less risk by the MPT


<h2> 2.1 Black-Litterman approach</h2>
The Black-Litterman method could be interpreted as an extension of the Modern Portfolio
Theory (MPT) since some of the problems that investors have encountered in applying the MPT
(such as high input-sensitivity and mean-variance maximization) are resolved through this
approach. The idea behind the Black-Litterman model consists of mixing markets assumptions
as well as a manager’s particular view on the market in order to generate a new vector of
4
expected returns. These views will affect the expected return of the asset concern, tilting out
our entire portfolio from the efficient MPT frontier.
The procedure for implementing this approach is the following (Seimertz 2015):
